What are you currently working on with the Bitcoin Core wallet? (Add your GitHub username and the date and a link to the PR, gist or branch where you're working. Don't put your entry below anyone who's more than a month out of date!)

Please update in advance of the wallet meeting held every two weeks on Friday at 19:00 UTC. The next meeting is on June 18th.

e.g.

**@sipa 2021-06-04** Basic Taproot signing support for descriptor wallets (#21365) and inference support (getting the descriptor for a given scriptPubKey) with feature freeze for 22.0 before the next wallet meeting (~June 14th)